---
layout: default
title:  "Proposal"
date:   2017-04-05 04:20:00
categories: main
---

# Testing Graph Bipartiteness using MPI
## Summary
Summarize your project in no more than 2-3 sentences. Describe what you plan to do and what parallel systems you will be working with.

## Background
If your project involves accelerating a compute-intensive application, describe the application or piece of the application you are going to implement in more detail. This description need only be a few paragraphs. It might be helpful to include a block diagram or pseudocode of the basic idea. An important detail is what aspects of the problem might benefit from parallelism? and why?

## The challenge 
 * Describe why the problem is challenging. What aspects of the problem might make it difficult to parallelize? In other words, what to you hope to learn by doing the project?
 * Describe the workload: what are the dependencies, what are its memory access characteristics? (is there locality? is there a high communication to computation ratio?), is there divergent execution?
 * Describe constraints: What are the properties of the system that make mapping the workload to it challenging?

## Resources

Describe the resources (type of computers, starter code, etc.) you will use. What code base will you start from? Are you starting from scratch or using an existing piece of code? Is there a book or paper that you are using as a reference (if so, provide a citation)? Are there any other resources you need, but haven't figured out how to obtain yet? Could you benefit from access to any special machines?

We plan to use the Latedays cluster to run our code on multiple machines. For communication/synchronization, we'll use OpenMPI.

## Goals and Deliverables
Describe the deliverables or goals of your project.

This is by far the most important section of the proposal:

 * Separate your goals into what you PLAN TO ACHIEVE (what you believe you must get done to have a successful project and get the grade you expect) and an extra goal or two that you HOPE TO ACHIEVE if the project goes really well and you get ahead of schedule. It may not be possible to state precise performance goals at this time, but we encourage you be as precise as possible. If you do state a goal, give some justification of why you think you can achieve it. (e.g., I hope to speed up my starter code 10x, because if I did it would run in real-time.)
 * If applicable, describe the demo you plan to show at the parallelism computation (will it be an interactive demo? will you show an output of the program that is really neat? will you show speedup graphs?). Specifically, what will you show us that will demonstrate you did a good job?
 * If your project is an analysis project, what are you hoping to learn about the workload or system being studied? What question(s) do you plan to answer in your analysis?
 * Systems project proposals should describe what the system will be capable of and what performance is hoped to be achieved.
 * IN GENERAL: Imagine that I didn't give you a grading script on assignments 2, 3, or 4. Imagine you did the entire assignment, made it as fast as you could, and then turned it in. You wouldn't have any idea if you'd done a good job!!! That's the situation you are in for the final project. And that's the situation I'm in when grading your final project. As part of your project plan, and ONE OF THE FIRST THINGS YOU SHOULD DO WHEN YOU GET STARTED WORKING is implement the test harnesses and/or baseline "reference" implementations for your project. Then, for the rest of your project you always have the ability to run your optimized code and obtain a comparison.
 * ----------------
 * We'll set up a test script such that we can submit a job that would run on several machines.
MapReduce, Hybrid OpenMP & MPI, GraphLab.


## Platform choice
It would be beneficial to use multiple machines to process large graphs. OpenMPI will help us dp that by establishing a message passing system between them. Info about latedays: High core count? Connection info? 

## Schedule

| Week of  | Things to do |
| ------------- | ------------- |
| April 10  | Implement sequential algorithm, research papers/web on possible parallelization approaches (algorithms and alternatives to MPI).   |
| April 17 | Collect testcases, implement testbench, implement a working parallel version, complete checkpoint writeup. |
| April 24 | Optimize the the parallel algorithm, test on large graphs, iterate. |
| May 1    | Implement a version with a different approach (e.g. algorithm or framework), collect speedup data. |
| May 8    | Wrap up, stretch goals, final report. |

[jekyll-gh]: https://github.com/mojombo/jekyll
[jekyll]:    http://jekyllrb.com